
OFRONT EVALUATION SHOP
======================

Welcome to Ofront (tm), the industry's leading Oberon-2 to C translator!

The Ofront evaluation shop provides
+  the Oberon System 3 library and the Internet browser "s p i r i t" as a 
   prototypical client of the Oberon System 3 library.
+  Ofront command line versions for a variety of Unix platforms
+  an integrated Ofront version for Windows 3.1/95/NT
+  the Oberon V4 system with integrated Ofront and the Oberon V4 library for 
   Unix platforms

The Ofront evaluation shop contains Ofront implementations, that may be used 
to create demo programs. A demo program is a program that identifies itself
as a demo program when started from a Unix shell.
In addition, the Ofront evaluation shop shows that Ofront can be used to 
realize non-trivial applications written entirely in the programming language 
Oberon-2 for a variety of Unix platforms. As examples, the ETH Oberon systems
V4 and System 3 have been selected. They include a windowing system, 
extensible text and graphics editors together with a number of extensions, an 
integrated Ofront version (V4 only) and many auxiliary tools.
    The Oberon V4 system is provided as a shared library named "libOberonV4.x" 
(if possible) and a dynamically linked executable named "oberon". A statically 
linked command-line version named "ofront" and a static archive of the 
OberonV4 module library are included as well. The Oberon V4 environment 
features an integrated Ofront version and a symbol file browser.
    Oberon System 3 Release 2.0 (Spirit of Oberon) is provided as a shared
library named libOberonS3 and a dynamically linked executable named 
"spirit". The latter accepts an optional document name as the first command
line parameter and opens that document in the user track. 
Since documents in Oberon System 3 are specified in the form 
of world-wide-web URLs (unique resource locators), this may be 
used as a starting point for browsing the internet!



Before evaluating Ofront please note the following statements:


COPYRIGHT (c) Software Templ, 1995

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
documentation for evaluation purposes is hereby granted without fee, provided 
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that 
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting 
documentation, and that the name of Ofront and Software Templ not be used in 
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without 
specific, written prior permission. Software Templ makes no representations 
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" 
without express or implied warranty.

SOFTWARE TEMPL DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, 
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT 
SHALL SOFTWARE TEMPL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, 
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.



INSTALLATION

(a) installation of the "Spirit of Oberon" Internet browser and operating 
    environment (Release XXX) for a particular platform (YYY):

	download and unpack the files 
		spirit-XXX-share.tar
		spirit-XXX-YYY.tar

	Additional fonts may be installed by downloading and unpacking the file 
		fonts.tar

	A manual page for the command "spirit" may be found in file 
		man1.tar


(b) installation of both the command-line and integrated version of
    Ofront (Release XXX) for a particular platform (YYY):

	download and unpack the files 
		ofront-XXX-share.tar
		ofront-XXX-YYY.tar

	Additional fonts may be installed by downloading and unpacking the file 
		fonts.tar

    Section 1 manual pages for the commands ofront, oberon, showdef
    and ocat may be found in file 
		man1.tar



CONTENTS
    Files with extension .Z must be transfered as binary files and
    uncompressed with the Unix "uncompress" command.
    Files with extension .gz must be transfered as binary files and
    uncompressed with the gnu unzip utility "gunzip".
    Files with extension .exe must be transfered as binary files and
    are self extracting.
    You may look at the contents of an archive xxx with the command
    "tar tf xxx.tar".


OfrontUser.A4.ps
OfrontUser.US.ps
    the Ofront user guide as ready-to-print postscript files for both
    A4 and US-letter paper size.

man1
    section 1 manual pages to be put in a man1 directory for commands ofront,
    oberon, spirit, showdef and ocat.

fonts
    Oberon raster fonts as Oberon font files and in the X-windows .bdf format. 
    Include this directory in the OBERON environment variable if you want to 
    use multiple fonts in one of the Oberon systems.
    Announce this directory to the X-server by means of an "xset +fp 
    directory" command. Note that some X-servers need to further process
    the .bdf files to a machine dependent format.

V4
    Oberon V4 data files that are independent of any particular platform. 
    Include this directory in the OBERON path if you want to run the 
    integrated version of Ofront by means of the command "oberon".

System3
    contains Oberon System 3 data files that are independent of any particular
    version. Include this directory in the OBERON path if you want to run 
    Oberon System 3 by means of the command "spirit". The particular version of
    Oberon System 3 is Release 2.0 with most of the Spirit of Oberon extensions.

version
    the generic name "version" stands for one of the following versions of 
    Ofront:
        aix    for IBM AIX (RS/6000)
        hpux    for HP-UX (PA-RISC)
        irix5    for SGI IRIX5 (MIPS)
        linux	for Linux (i386)
        sunos4    for SunOS 4.x (SPARC)
        sunos5    for SunOS 5.x (SPARC)
        ultrix    for DEC Ultrix (MIPS)
    the "version" directory contains an evaluation version of Ofront for a 
    particular platform.

ofwin.exe
    an evaluation version of Ofront for Windows 3.1 and Windows for Workgroups.
    To install Ofront for Windows, execute the command "ofwin targetdir",
    where targetdir means the directory in wich Ofront is to be installed.
    You may also copy ofwin.exe into the target directory and execute it 
    without a parameter.
    Ofront for Windows may also be used as a subsystem of Oberon/F for
    Windows 3.1, WfWG, NT or 95. It may currently not be installed as a
    stand-alone program under Windows'95 or NT. For installing the
    Ofront subsystem, please refere to the help text in 
    Ofront\System\Rsrc\Ofront.odc.
    Note that Ofront for Windows does not come with an extensive set of library
    modules. Nevertheless, it may be useful for demonstrating the integrated
    development environment.

version/bin
    the commands ofront, showdef, ocat, oberon, and spirit for a particular platform.
    You may want to include this directory in the PATH environment variable.

version/lib
    the library libOberonV4 and/or libOberonS3 in static and/or dynamic form
    for a particular platform.

version/V4
    the symbol and header files for a particular platform.
    Include this directory in the OBERON environment variable and instruct
    the C compiler to use this directory to look for header files.

version/System3
    the symbol and header files of the Oberon System 3 library for a 
    particular platform.
    Include this directory in the OBERON environment variable and instruct
    the C compiler to use this directory to look for header files.

version/ob4
    shell script that shows how to start the integrated version. ob4 uses
    path names relative to the environment variable OFRONT_HOME

version/ocl
    shell script that can be used to translate, compile and link a single
    Oberon module to a shared object library, which can be loaded at run time.
    This script is only provided for those platforms that support run-time 
    linking.

version/spirit.csh
    shell script that shows how to start Oberon System 3 on a particular
    platform. spirit.csh uses path names relative to the environment 
    variable OFRONT_HOME.



mailorder
	a form that may be used to order Ofront via e-mail.


CONTACT
    internet: jt@swe.uni-linz.ac.at (Dr. Josef Templ)
    fon/fax: (++AUSTRIA) 732 / 778954

